hi this is tania malik senior product
manager for windows azure in this
walkthrough i'll demonstrate how to set
up the windows azure cache to cache
asp.net session state caching the
session state enables your users in
session activities to persist and scale
across multiple web roles the windows
azure cash provides a simple way to hold
your data in memory and close to your
cloud-based application in a traditional
deployment developers need to understand
where cache data should reside configure
the environment provision of cash and
then manage the data with the windows
azure cash the complex mechanics of
building configuring and managing the
cache are pretty much all done for you
leaving you to focus on determining
which data is suitable for caching and
making this happen through the simple
cache API or vie configuration so let's
now do a demo for this example I'm going
to show you an application that stores
user activities in the asp.net session
I'll demonstrate what happens if the web
role to which the user is connecting is
lost resulting in the loss of session
activity and data then I'll show you how
easy it is to enable the windows azure
cash to store session activity so that
the loss of the web role has no impact
on the user session you can download
code files and instructions from
codeplex and follow along if you like
okay let's start I'll open and run the
application for you in the baseline
state the project consists of a Windows
Azure project with a web role the
default page is a simple text box and a
submit button when we enter text and
click the button the text is sent to the
session I'm typing a little texts to
test both my typing skills and all the
keys on my keyboard the quick brown fox
jumps over the lazy dog
as I add text it's added to the session
with each page load the text is read
from the session and displayed below the
text box now I'll click between the add
session data page and the show session
data page to show the text i typed is
coming from the session within the cloud
a user will connect to one web role at
the start of an activity however with
each click of the submit button or link
they may connect to a different web role
web roles can change for other reasons
as well the host machine could get
recycled or my application could crash
in these instances my user will also
connect to a different web role as
session state is bound to the web role
to which the user is connected
connecting to another web role will
result in the loss of activity data
stored in their session unless you
persist this data across all web roles
I'm going to simulate connecting to a
new web role by suspending the instance
in the compute emulator and recycling my
local is
when i refresh the webpage all our work
is lost the windows are jet cash can
solve this challenge for you by storing
the asp.net session data for the
purposes of this demonstration I'm
assuming you have already set up and
provisioned your Windows Azure cash all
right now to the code I'll do a brief
walkthrough at the beginning state and
then we'll modify the configuration to
enable the cash when text is entered on
the button on the home page is clicked
the text passes from the textbox through
a serializable class called session data
and then into the cash as the user adds
more text it is added and persisted in
the session now let's look at how we're
displaying the list in the code behind
of the show session data page I get the
text stored in the cache and bind it to
a list view control switching to the
display page you see the ListView knows
to loop through all the items in the
list and show them to the user now let's
wire up the cash to work with the
application first we need to add the
assembly to use the distributed cache in
our project the Microsoft web
distributed cache dll you'll find them
under program files in the Windows Azure
SDK folder in the windows azure portal I
click the View Client configuration
button in the ribbon which exposes the
service specific configuration
information we will put in our web Doug
config for this demo we need to copy and
paste the config sections and data cache
client sections to the configuration
section of web button fig this section
contains the name of our cash and the
access token to use it then I copy the
session state section from the portal
into the system dot web section of web
de config this tells the distributed
cache to store session state from the
web role and with that the application
is configured to use the distributed
cache but here's the best part there are
no code changes to make once the
application is configured to use the
cash for session state
the windows azure cash does the rest of
the work in storing the data in the
distributed cache let's run this as
before I type into the text box and the
text is stored in the session as I
switch between the add page and the
display page you see my data is intact
and all as well however this time
through the session activity is also
being persisted in the Windows Azure
appfabric cash meaning my activities
will survive the loss of the web role to
which I'm connected so let's test this
like before I'm stopping the emulator
and resetting IAS which simulates
connecting to a different web role now
i'll restart the emulator and refresh
the web client and there we are my
session state returns right where I left
off read from the distributed cache in
this presentation we did the following
things we walk through a simple
application using the asp.net session
state we demonstrated what happens to a
session when connecting to a different
web role we configure the application to
use the distributed cache to store
session state from the appfabric portal
we enjoyed the benefit of a distributed
cache to improve user experience I hope
you see how easy this is and the
benefits it can provide to your
application I recommend you test this
out yourself
the demo code scripts and snippets are
all available on codeplex please also go
to Windows Azure com where you can find
the latest information and additional
resources to help you try out this for
yourself additionally you can find
details of our current offers including
a free trial and download the SDK many
thanks for your time